+++
title = "Preface"
date =  2019-01-21T23:15:53+05:20
weight = 1
pre = "<b>0. </b>"
+++


## What C gets right.

- C is a general-purpose programming language.
- It is not a very high level language, nor a big one.
- It was originally designed for and implemented on the UNIX operating system.
- Very useful for writing operating system, compilers and system programs and hence it is also called a "systems programming language".
- Many important ideas in C stem from BCPL and B. [BCPL -> B -> C]
- BCPL and B are "typeless" languages, they don't have data types defined. 
- On the other hand, C provides a variety of data types, as well as a hierarchy of derived data types like structure and union.
- Expressions are statements in C.
- Pointers provide machine-independent address arithmetic.
- Control flow constructions - for, while, if-else, etc.
- Functions in C might be in separate source files that can be compiled separately.
- Concept of Local(Automatic) and Global variables.
- Preprocessing to include libraries and to perform macro expansion.

## Some Features of C
- C provides no input/output facilities(READ or WRITE).
- C provides no operation to deal directly with composite objects such as strings and arrays.
- No storage allocation other than static definition and stack discipline provided by local variables of functions.
- There is no heap and garbage collection.
- C offers only straightforward, single-thread control flow: tests, loops, etc., but no parallel operation, multiprogramming, sync, or coroutines.
- C Programming language was standardized by ANSI (American National Standards Institute) in 1988.
- ANSI C also included definition of a library to accompany C. It specifies functions for accessing the operating system (Read/Write), 
formatted input and output, memory allocation, string manipulation, etc. This library is closely modeled on the "standard I/O library" of the UNIX system.
